# CS-340-MongoDB-project
A class project using MongoDB

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

The best way to write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is to write in a modular fashion using the single responsiblity principle. In this case the CRUD module is responsible for the database. It connects to the database and performs CRUD operations through different methods. The advantage of this approach is that it can be used by different programs. This approach achieves modularity and extensibility. This module can be used for other MongoDB projects since all that is required is a modification of the connection. The methods are flexible enough to be used for any query the user needs.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

The first step is to understand what the client needs for their application to be considered useful. This begins with understanding the data being used and how the client wants to manipulate and display the data. Once that functionality is working properly, the presentation can be addressed. This is when the data can be mapped to the view so they user can present things in a user-friendly fashion. This was a bit different from other projects since it involved a front-end aspect. Most projects have been mostly back-end focused on the model. I have used other frameworks before, but this was the first time using Dash. I enjoyed it since it is lightweight and incredibly simple. I will definitely continue leveraging the use of drivers whenever possible to streamline development that requires database integration.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

That is a complex question since computer science is vast and has numerous applications. In the case of application development such as with Grazioso Salvare, a computer scientists develops applications and systems to make business operations more efficient through the use of logic and reasoning. The programming language(s) and computers in general are simply tools. My work as a computer scientist helps clients like Grazioso improve their businesses by streamlining certain processes and making them more efficient. This can span from organizing client information to analyzing data to uncover trends that can make or break a business. Creating an effective architecture for a client can save them time and money.
